---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-vlan.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
  serverless: all
---
% This file is automatically generated. Don't edit it manually!

# VLAN fields [ecs-vlan]

The VLAN fields are used to identify 802.1q tag(s) of a packet, as well as ingress and egress VLAN associations of an observer in relation to a specific packet or connection.

Network.vlan fields are used to record a single VLAN tag, or the outer tag in the case of q-in-q encapsulations, for a packet or connection as observed, typically provided by a network sensor (e.g. Zeek, Wireshark) passively reporting on traffic.

Network.inner VLAN fields are used to report inner q-in-q 802.1q tags (multiple 802.1q encapsulations) as observed, typically provided by a network sensor  (e.g. Zeek, Wireshark) passively reporting on traffic. Network.inner VLAN fields should only be used in addition to network.vlan fields to indicate q-in-q tagging.

Observer.ingress and observer.egress VLAN values are used to record observer specific information when observer events contain discrete ingress and egress VLAN information, typically provided by firewalls, routers, or load balancers.

## VLAN field details [_vlan_field_details]

| Field | Description | Level |
| --- | --- | --- |
| $$$field-vlan-id$$$ [vlan.id](#field-vlan-id) | VLAN ID as reported by the observer.<br><br>type: keyword<br><br>example: `10`<br> | extended |
| $$$field-vlan-name$$$ [vlan.name](#field-vlan-name) | Optional VLAN name as reported by the observer.<br><br>type: keyword<br><br>example: `outside`<br> | extended |

## Field reuse [_field_reuse]

The `vlan` fields are expected to be nested at:

* `network.inner.vlan`
* `network.vlan`
* `observer.egress.vlan`
* `observer.ingress.vlan`

Note also that the `vlan` fields are not expected to be used directly at the root of the events.
